oh my god it's hotline leak episode 44
I'm shocked I'm shocked we've been able
to get the show going because we didn't
have some technical difficulties ahead
of time but it's great because we've got
media straight from the analyst desk you
guys have heard his wisdom his sage
advice everything he's been saying all
the time on the analyst desk now he's
gonna be bringing it directly to you in
the calls on the show we got Mark
Zimmerman who also is on the analyst
desk I don't know if that's exciting at
all but by the way TSM they're not going
to work so so much talk about all that
more starting hotline League episode 45
right now opened by HP brought to you by
open by HP all right I had to redo there
was a bit of a stutter there for some
reasons on the intro but we got it we
got it fixed all right I'm excited for
the show to start mark is my constant
co-host he's joining me right now how's
it going mark great good tell you're
excited for the show too and meteos is
here meteos how has life been for you
because I know you've been on the
analyst desk but like what do you what
are you doing what's your life like
what's happening life's just been kind
of hanging out like unwinding from the
season hanging out with friends playing
some wow yeah John what do you is it
basically like a vacation for you or do
you have work that you're doing like
what what is life like ah it's probably
closer to a vacation then anything else
is mostly just from like analyst desk
and playing League nice when I practice
league it's kind of like I'm doing my
job but also kind of like I'm playing
video games yeah that's fair that's fair
well we got some big stories to talk
about on the show tonight history has
been made TSM is not continuing on to
Worlds after the gauntlet cloud9 will be
going instead I don't know what else do
we got they did the coast stream thing
which it would be great to hear from
people on what they sort of think about
the co streaming thing that interviewed
a guy this past weekend who works at
Wright who was mention
that they've had Sherman he's been on
the show before they have 40,000 people
at one point in time Co streaming
there's just a bunch of different stuff
I don't know mark 4,000 people Co
streaming sorry
there are 40,000 people watching I was
like that was my fuckup I'm like trying
to get the show going cuz I feel
pressure for Marc Marc what what other
topics do do you think a lot of TSN
stuff to talk about on the show tonight
yeah but hopefully not everything I
don't want to turn this into the TSM
episode I mean it's it's obviously the
biggest story but there's some we're
going to talk about them through Worlds
yeah what yeah that's fair I think a
little heavy is fair we can talk about
North America and if they're gonna go
into Worlds medias was quoted this
weekend as saying there's a lot of
things and it is great playing well is
not one of them no misquote misquote I
said it's not always one of them a super
massive misquote there holy shit as
opposed to being a hundred percent of
the time it's it's down to like I'm
saying we're not always good that's a
much better closing we're always bad
huge difference that's a much better
quote than what reddit gave you which
was the one that I read so that's crazy
I don't know mark is am I forgetting
anything talk about those yeah I don't
want to talk about this all right
so mark do you want to explain how the
show works yeah I think a lot people
already know this is the fucking million
people in here but if you are not one of
those people the way this show works is
we have a discord where people will come
and join up once they get there they
will join a voice Channel
plugs alter plug calls to once you're in
one of those you can meet yourself and
then in the text channel plug topics
you'll go ahead and post whatever it is
you want to talk about trying to keep it
to take so not just say I want to talk
about what you TSN do say like this is
what I think yes I'm should do her stuff
like that if we like your topic we'll
pull you from the pleb calls voice
Channel
into the waiting room where when it's
your time we'll come down and do a quick
voice check make sure everything sounds
good before pulling you on the show to
discuss cool well excited to have that
by the way if you are a sub that does
allow you to get access to the sub
channel and discord you have to sync all
that stuff up it does take a little bit
of a time but you can check out how to
do that and it doesn't necessarily give
you you know a guarantee that you'll be
done over other people but you can't
pick your topic in the sub topics chat
which moves a little slower and that
might be a little bit of an advantage
regardless and sorry by the way if
you're watching with odd I know that
there's some flickering from the webcams
I don't know why Skype is doing that I
don't know how to fix it but we started
the show 40 minutes late and I didn't
have time to fix it so hopefully you can
suffer through it other than that I
don't know let's mark you want to start
pulling people sure cool so yeah have
you medias I assume you have never seen
this show before why are you seeing that
because every guest that comes on it has
never seen the show before I've seen the
show okay okay
well what was your favorite episode just
the one where you guys were talking
about leak that was look to me in a lot
of ways that was a pretty good episode I
did I I'm pretty proud of that one in
particular it was a banger no doubt yeah
yeah I'm a little out okay I will turn
myself down I recently positioned my
microphone that was just last week
actually all right mark how we looking
we have someone well that was quick
thieve Co is joining us Steve Koh where
you calling from California oh you're
right here do really close to me yeah do
we know you
well are we
I see your light your mic lighting up
this is you too what did you say me yes
I said probably not probably not okay
well yours which Prime so so are your
twits up so thank you very much what do
you want to talk about on the show
tonight how I think that this year will
be very similar to season four at worlds
with na being very successful except
this year one of the two teams that
makes it out of groups will get an
easier
quarterfinals match and make it to semis
okay why do you think that no no I was
gonna sink for a thief
why dois thief why do you feel like
that's gonna happen just feel like this
year is very similar in the style and
stuff of the different teams going to
Worlds especially in Samsung or Genji in
this case being like one of the top
teams
it just resembles in a lot of ways to
season four to me and I feel like TL and
cloud 9 both actually look like they're
pretty good teams that could make a deep
run into into Worlds okay well here let
me contextualise us a little bit for for
you medias and and mark is our cloud 9
and Team Liquid good teams because one
of the concerns that I have is that we
saw three O's across the board including
Team Liquid three over three are weak c9
and often times three O's don't feel
like very good like was to Team Liquid
actually get a strong contest against
cloud nine cloud nine they were just
able to beat TSM was TSM not good like
three O's doesn't feel like a very
competitive region for a lot of people
yeah I think that's fair and um I do
notice some similarities between now and
season four a big one that stands out to
me is that SKT didn't make worlds again
so you know SKT gets just insane worlds
buff where they just win every time so I
think that definitely them not being
there will probably help out the Western
teams a bit and yeah I mean I could
definitely see na going farther than
they have in the past this year just
because like I feel that na is been
playing a lot more aggressively lately
as a region especially the top teams
like liquid and c9 they've been taking a
lot of steps towards just like trying to
be more proactive and make more plays
happen which I think historically is
kind of like been a bit of n A's
downfall in international tournaments
because we get so used to playing
against each other in North America and
we kind of understand what everyone's
gonna do
which makes so we play a bit more
reactively because like we don't get
surprised too often
then you go internationally and yours
not doing anything and they hate you
with something you haven't seen before
and you just kind of fall over so yeah I
could see it in a better year for us for
sure I think with regards to the c9 TL
part c9 is hard for me to judge because
in playoffs they did not really look
like they're regular sees himself or
like blabber was not making anything
happen in the early game and especially
the finals risky o where he just got
like shut down super hard and well all
of c9 has got shut down super hard from
the jungle position that was a little
scary but then they bounced back and
kind of destroyed TSM so I think if we
get a c9 like we saw in regular season
and in the gauntlet that's pretty good
decent I'd be excited to see what they
can do from there but the scary part is
that the Chinese region is doing a lot
better it's like assuming Korea didn't
get much worse and China got better than
theirs just probably more good teams
there which is an argument I've heard a
lot of people make about why even if na
is fine have they caught up as much as
China has progressed like China's
definitely gonna be one of the
frontrunners in the tournament because
when I look at the Korean teams going
like both Griffin and SKT didn't make it
so what are the Korean teams just like
Genji Africa freaks and you do Katy yeah
I don't think any of them are bad but I
don't know they don't really seem as
like menacing is maybe Gryphon wood or
something like that so I do think like
Korea looks maybe weaker than that
happen relatively to previous years but
I think China will be really really good
yeah I'm sorry about China otherwise
like I think a lot of it comes down to
how any teams play
I think the region definitely didn't I
felt like there was everyone was a step
behind the one seed like by pretty clear
Malik everyone's behind TL by a pretty
sizable margin which is I think a little
concerning that you think you're only
sending one good team but I also think
seeing I was so back and forth that I
don't know if they were good or bad by
the end of the season anymore
there was a
thread for the interview I did with
check where he said in a you know like
this we have the best chance we've ever
had or we have this year and a lot of
people in there are just this is on
writers kind of saying no Jack shut up
for instance something he says this is
fantasy and philosophy unfortunately I
feel the opposite court Korea as always
look strong and kings own the
domestically dominant internationally
not so good Korean team isn't going to
worlds then you have the LPL who looks
better than ever and na got trashed at
last MSI event the West only team likely
to do well is fnatic that said there's
usually the one team that steps up
unexpectedly like misfits last year so
hopefully Claude and I can do that this
year that's a very different take and I
feel like one that is shared by the
reason I highlight that is just because
I feel like a lot of the community and a
lot of the industry feels that way right
that it's just like yeah and they can
say that they're gonna do well but
ultimately like history shows us not the
case and there's not enough proof that
these these teams are strong enough to
do anything different the only thing I
really you kind of cut out mark sorry I
can but what I was saying was the only
thing I really can test about that is
like we got destroyed at MSI or
something whatever that line was like we
didn't get destroyed we played a
tiebreaker match against fnatic to make
it out yeah you know and that was with
Olay and tl kind of having a mental
breakdown for the first two days which
can easily happen again at Worlds well
we've got a couple backups this time
teams to liquid yeah yeah but like I
don't think MSI was this like
catastrophe that people think it was me
do somewhat a first couple days felt
like it maybe I want to put you on the
spot obviously the team that nobody
seems to be talking about going into
worlds from North America is 100t your
former team what do you how do you feel
about them headed into Worlds and you
know their their relative strengths well
I think a lot of people are kind of
rating hundred thieves pretty low as far
as the standings go because they didn't
really seem like they stacked up that
well against the teams they were playing
at the end of the season like they lost
to TSM they lost to host at cloud 9 or
look I think liquid so like they lost to
TSM they lost to liquid and I don't
think hundred thieves is bad or like
North American standards I think they're
a solid team for sure but I do feel like
they have a bit of that passive play
style that I was talking about earlier
like they seem to do well on sort of
like the meatball comps where you put
like Ryu on like the malzahar and on
sejuani and they play to scale and play
for late quite a bit and I think that
strategy is just a lot harder to pull
off when you play against like they play
against Korean or Chinese teams they
might have trouble dealing with early
aggression gotcha agree so I'm sorry
Steve Koh we kind of talked past you do
you have any other questions or thoughts
on this the other reason that I think
that this is a possibilities I feel like
all of the top teams or teams that could
have a game or two stolen from them in a
sense of just like I don't feel like
they're as dominant as past years in the
sense that like in previous years I felt
like SKT was just little game it would
be a huge upset whereas this year I feel
like a lot of the top games could lose a
couple games than it wouldn't be that
shocking yeah I think it's for me
watching the Korean games if it's one of
those things really I still think
watching them they look really good but
sometimes it's scary to have one team
that's just like super ultra gods here
from the best region then it is to have
a bunch of teams who are around the same
level but I don't know and you've talked
about the the similarities to 2014 2014
had it absolutely discussing Korean like
Samsung blue and Samsung white kta
didn't make it but they went to a
best-of-five and their Finals that year
as well so the last time we saw Korea
this close I would say was another year
where they were very very good yeah
another thing to think about going into
Worlds that like I don't know if he gets
talked about too much but in my
experience when I like to practice
leading up the worlds is always super
weird because you have to be kind of
like thoughtful in your practice about
who your playing is and who's gonna leak
because I know
historically like who's gonna leave
Chinese teams leaked to each other all
the time so example like if we scrim
against one of the Chinese teams the
other Chinese teams in the tournament
that we might be in a group with will
definitely know what we're playing
so that can like lead to them having
like more information going into the
game than they would otherwise have so
is that just kind of like a commonly
accepted thing there's just like people
just leak cuz I mean they're like that
this was something that Weldon said I
think when he was on TSM he got mad
flamed for so I don't know if you're
gonna get mad flame for it but like I've
heard this before
right that like just at Worlds teams
within their same regions just like
start sharing information with each
other yeah and I think it definitely
happens and I don't think every team's
gonna do it but I mean there was the
like for my own personal experience
there was a gambit situation back in
season 3 worlds when putting in spin
attic where we played like an entire day
of scrims against gambit like just
playing our best stuff and then when our
match against fnatic comes around they
somehow knew exactly all the champions I
was gonna play without us really like
having any other games where we showed
that champion pool so that kind of thing
definitely happens and I don't really
know what you can do about it because on
one hand it's like I know for me
personally I try to like be respectful
for the integrity of the game and like
not basically like give away info that I
shouldn't but I know a lot of other
people will worry like oh well like if
every other team's leaking they'll going
with an advantage so we have to do it
too so I don't really know how much it's
gonna affect it or how much is gonna
happen but it's definitely something
that can happen is there would there be
value it like is our the scrim so
valuable I assume they are but are the
scrim so valuable that you just can't
you need these scrims right could North
America not just like try to scream
amongst each other or like could cloud9
not because I know this was the big
Samsung story from what 2014 could cloud
9 bring like their challenger team and
just try to scream exclusively and then
there's no chance that anybody knows
what these guys are doing or is it just
like you just super need the scrams
against like these top-tier teams which
I again I assume would be the case
yeah and it's definitely I don't know if
there's like one necessarily right
answer in that case because pretty much
no matter what you do there's gonna be
potential risks of it right like if you
only bring your Academy team and you
practice against them you're probably
not exposing yourself to enough stuff
because like you can watch a team play
as much as you want but until you
actually play against them you don't
have that good of a feel for what
they're gonna do like how they're gonna
react to certain situations so I think
it's still gonna be beneficial to play
against as many teams as you can
especially the best ones but sometimes
you just have to think about like how
much do we want to hide here like as an
example when cloud9 was playing against
TSM and they pulled out the hecarim top
like TSM had no idea that was coming
even if they were like receiving
information from other teams
oh no and like never played hecarim in a
scrim so there's definitely some
incentive to like hide things you're
practicing not show all your cards but
at the same time try to get good
practice and not like be disrespectful
toward the other team by like full
sandbagging that kind of thing yeah
gotcha hey thief Kosei thank you so much
for the question
or the thank you yeah appreciate moving
on to the next one are we doing we can
do one more I would okay I mean
definitely do one more before we go into
our little break but as Mark is pulling
the next person want to shout out to a
bunch of people where we beat Wow
goes way back Warwick Davis
Volpe volp Tex Vinny nap-nap e-beam
hoeing Nets they call me beans Dani
Graham sent 400 bits and said thanks so
much
I love omen vice peace out where Achatz
are cool shy SH 9 5 3 cents six months
ours atthe loop choke 4 flurry flurry
cent 1500 bits sorry use my prime
expense that you can have it keep up the
good work thank you that's a very
generous liket owed one goober lawn
gnome for someone stinks Owen by HP for
getting the show started Fred the free
gift to the sub to Danny grim Danny
grant by the way you can reso fer
one dollar marducks armar do is it
marjoram are ducks i see Marta marducks
it's fine whatever thank you for being a
sub where are you calling from
yeah I'm actually leaving Texas a bit
I'm actually from Peru go from prove
nice whereabouts in Texas you don't have
to give a specific location but you know
general would be nice okay it's pretty
big so I'm pretty sure nobody's gonna
find me
okay very good well what do you want to
talk about on the show tonight I mean
teens to promote young talent you know
like the way c9 is actually doing you
know get I mean young talent you know
high school players you know perhaps
first on the academy team you know and
then kind of have a scream against the
main team in order to earn that macro
kind of thing you know like ideally what
I would say it's like alright have your
normal screams with the main team in our
teams and then uh we are Academy teens
what you would do something that really
many teams doing on on League of Legends
you know it's saying this thing called
eight where you actually just grab like
in this case like ten players you know
and kind of like swap them around you
know so you have like two on one team
three on the ER team you know oh you're
saying so so really bleed your Academy
team and your main roster together
exactly because I mean the thing that
veterans will bring to the table will be
like macro in the decision-making you
know and then high school players you
know it would kind of like get used to
that type of place out you know and I
learned some macro you know and kind of
like bring them to the level you know
like I mean and then you will have
probably like coaches you know for
certain position you know like for
example uh a coach for 80 seats you know
I mean that we'll be looking at pics on
Korea and China and other regions you
know I tell you like hey okay so this is
good this is good this is good you
should play this on this game you know
and kind of like choose that for
everybody you know and instead of
actually cleaning soloqueue which is
like you'd that moving down your level
you know because you're kind of playing
for fun you know you know so so I mean
this one will give you like a
competitive level practice that you
would need yet you were still playing
with like random pics so like whatever
you know so you can actually have better
and you put the high school players to
replace second to your players like I
don't know I mean I'm a big fan of TL
you know because of double EF and I mean
I like pobelter and whatever you know
the polluter besides being really good
and whatever you know I mean you're
never gonna be a faker you know he's
never gonna be impact or double if you
know BJ Pearson you know he's never
gonna get to that level and actually
people actually put him in a lane you
know you don't expect him to win you
know sure so let's let's say that I mean
it sounds like your general argument is
you just want to see more teams using
like promoting players out of Academy
and finding new talent and seeing North
America really find new talent I mean I
don't think it's necessary to actually
import players instead actually
cultivating gotcha yeah so well this is
kind of what we saw from the past year I
feel like I'm particular we've really
seen in cloud 9 you know using this to
win yesterday finding native North
American talent and working with that I
don't know mark do you what do you think
about all this
well I think maybe you can go too far
with it like the idea that you don't
need imports I think that's probably a
little ridiculous yeah I mean that was
kind of like the golden Guardians take
at the beginning of the year and then
they ended up with Mickey exporting
himself but please grab me the top tier
na talent so it's a little up in the air
whether or not that would work but I
still think that there's no way you want
to run no imports across your whole
league whether or not you can put a
single team together as a different
thing right I don't of media six
different yeah well I mean it's
definitely an interesting perspective
because
is on one hand like you can look at
cloud nine and they did this system very
successfully right like they're using
all of their players all their players
are very close and it's kind of like a
mutually beneficial thing where it's
just more perspectives and in the end
you get a better result but I think what
can also happen that I'm a little
worried about it's gonna become more
sort of prevalent in the future
especially for players is that like say
I'm I'm like a skilled jungler whatnot
and team wants me to join their team
right and then you recruit like one of
these veteran players one of these
skilled players you're like you know it
can be anyone not just me like double
lifts or sneaky or whatnot and then you
bring in rookies that and they're you're
basically just like using the
experienced player to coach up the
rookie and teach them everything you
know and then they just kind of like
release the player and they're like
alright thanks thank you for like
helping us see yeah because like it's
not gonna happen in every situation but
look at froggen and Demonte like that
dynamic Demonte has said that one of the
most impactful things in his career that
like helped him get to the level he's at
was getting to scrim against frog in
every single day for like months on end
right and now look at how it's turned
out froggen is currently team Lucinda
Monta is starting on Echo Fox so it's
kind of a weird dynamic when like as an
experienced player you're worried about
this guy coming and like just taking
your spot basically and you being left
with nothing
was that your leave I know it didn't
really happen with Levi but I mean me
something that can't happen
it basically happened as well was seen I
am with smoothie right like he I don't
know how much coaching he personally did
today as well but Cecil was brought in
sat on the the team on the Academy squad
for about you know seven months a split
and a half before kind of getting his
start and Smoothie ended up on echo fox
as a results so I can see where meteos
is coming from as a fan like as someone
who is not in a team environment like a
fan they probably are not super
sympathetic because they're just like
yeah more regional strength is hopefully
what they're getting out of it which I
think with Martok's
is probably saying but I can see
where it's not an ideal environment for
a lot of players yeah and I think one
thing too that I don't really hear here
ever get talked about but sometimes I
think that like North American fans just
kind of have unrealistic expectations at
times and you know I think for whatever
reason every na or not every but a lot
of na fans seem to care I think too much
about international success because like
international tournaments happen what
like once or twice a year world's being
the main one and yeah like na gets
smacked at Worlds lot but I think
there's a lot more factors that go into
it and just like trying to push pro
players past the point of breaking
because like we have the smallest player
base of any of the major regions we solo
queue on the worst paying of any of the
major regions and on top of that there's
just like I don't really know if it's
something where na should be expected to
be a front-runner in one of these world
championship tournaments there's a lot
of stuff stacked against us and for me I
kind of like enjoy rooting on na is the
underdog kind of thing that's what Mark
has said in the past right is Mark your
your famous statement I think you have a
lot of Fame for saying this on Halloween
is we don't why you know why should any
be good at international tournaments and
you there's no good answer there like
why yeah as opposed to saying why is any
bad I just like flipping the question
around and be like tell me why and he's
good yeah so going back to the c9 point
and just specifically investment and new
players I think it's actually huge like
I can understand why pro players not
some per players would be like this is
an uncomfortable situation but
orgs should hundred percent push for it
because I mean the success di has had
not just this split but all time doing
it between ray and impact they ended up
sitting with impact between smoothie and
bunny when smoothie ended up being the
better option for them like they've done
it time and time again and I don't think
it's a surprise that like you know
golden Guardians did not invest very
heavily in their Academy roster they
traded their spot out of scouting
grounds didn't seem to care about it
also didn't sign any imports and then
they have a the only team to ever go
back-to-back last place yeah so
I think there's a lot of value to be
gained in seriously considering all the
talent that you see in North America as
opposed to writing off anyone which i
think is happening a lot in the past but
hey that's definitely a good point I
don't think it's a super black-and-white
thing where there's only one way you can
do it because like on one hand you look
at clown Ines case and I think all the
players in that organization are like
pretty happy with where they are and how
they're doing things I think that it's
not just sort of like the action of
taking a team and integrating the LCS
players with the academy players super
closely it's kind of like the intentions
behind it because like what if there's a
player in that system that's just like
withholding lots of stuff that they know
well just trying to soak anything they
can out of their counterpart right it's
like it's not really a fair interaction
at that point but how do you judge that
like how do you see the players
intentions and really I guess make it
run smoothly because it to me just seems
like there's a lot of risks that can
happen with this system not to say it
can't work but I think it definitely
kind of provides incentive that would
break down team chemistry especially
with like the orgs pushing for it even
if it's uncomfortable for players and
for me I feel that any team where the
players are comfortable and they feel
like a lot of connection with each other
and there's a lot of camaraderie those
teams are always going to be the best so
I don't think it's a terrible system but
I think it's something you have to be
kind of careful with mark how does it
happen in traditional sports or how's it
handled because you do have like
starters starters and they all are
training together kind of deal the
biggest difference in traditional sports
is that people get tired and so you need
subs like you literally even if you're
LeBron James like you're not playing 48
minutes of a basketball game you're
playing anywhere between 32 and 38 maybe
42 in the playoffs if you're fucking
amazing cardio player the like you
literally need subs and so you literally
need to practice together and that
player will always get playing time and
when you practice you're shuffled into
you know yeah so like you play different
lineups and
they have to take a seat for six games
lying that long with time people always
just playing the other different lineups
and stuff so it's very very different in
traditional sports I'm not sure of an
example off the top of my head that
holds up really well where you have five
players who can play every game every
time and never need to come out still
have subs that are used frequently yeah
I'm trying to think of something but
like I'm sure it happens all the time
and like I don't like dance like you
have your best dancers and you have your
backup dancers or something and
sometimes someone gets a shot for not
playing well or like jazz band or some
shit like that like oh I don't know how
all that stuff works
drumline yeah like I've watched a couple
movies apparently there's backup
drummers who want to get their shot I
feel like eyes not playing well or
something and they just both practice I
don't know right and and I definitely
think that's that's valuable I'm not
trying to say that I don't think an
academy system is good because on the
flip side kind of like playing devil's
advocate what I was saying before if you
have a team that's just like five
veteran players and they're just like
super lazy unmotivated and kind of like
just don't want to put in as much work
as you need to the org would kind of be
like alright our hands are tied like if
these guys don't want to played and
we're like we're screwed right so having
the academy players as like some form of
motivation or just like backups in case
something happens to the main team is
definitely important I just think that
for me the big off school is just like
how much are you expecting you're more
experienced players to coach and teach
the less experienced players and how
much is it just on them to sort of learn
on their own like I'm not going to sit
there and like Big Brother this dude but
all scrim against Imanol like play to
win like I'll be competitive but I'm not
gonna be like hey man like you know when
I punish you for this if you did this
you totally would have beat my ass and
so that kind of thing yeah yeah hey
marducks thank you so much for the call
one quick question two medias real quick
yeah okay so the you think your sarcasm
you know might come out as a little bit
of a lack of respect do some of this
stuff
from the orbs that you work in the past
sarcasm to make these sarcastic things
which i think is super funny you know
but like I've seen a like the highs and
that kind of stuff you know and I feel
like maybe you know this stuff will find
it kinda disrespectful I'm like can you
give an example
seems a little fake I'm not sure I
actually spaced out for two seconds what
do you think I he's saying that media
sometimes uses like sarcasm and then it
might be disrespectful to the orgs that
he's worked with in the past can you
give an example of that Martok's nation
was giving the East something like that
and I mean you made this sarcastic
remark you know it was very funny you
know but I mean he showed off a little
bit you know I think we I mean I think
yeah like there's I try to be
professional in times when I should be
professional and then I think there's
also room to kind of like be more
lighthearted and joke around about stuff
so I mean I think that being
unprofessional at times when I should be
professional or not taking things
seriously enough can be disrespectful
but I don't know if it's it's again like
something that's super black-and-white
that um is like yeah you should never
ever joke you should be like a stalwart
robot player especially through video
medium where you're not there like it's
very hard to judge what is the
appropriate mood and setting for
something when you're watching it on a
video hey Marc sorry we have to move on
because we started kinda late but thank
you so much for your call have a good
one right before our before we move on
we have to do something really quick
which I'm very excited to do you notice
if you wanna go get some water or
something you can totally do that but
feel free to chill as well it started to
talk about our sponsor for the show
Olman by HP they sponsor the show for
quite some time now I want to thank them
so much they've hooked us up what we
lost me
this webcam hopefully comes back they've
hooked us up with some gear actually a
great deal of gear this is being all my
setup and all that stuff is being run on
almond stuff the computer the production
computer behind me where people are
doing or right not right now but I've
had people come in and edit on it and
capture footage and all this stuff for
the stuff that I do they they do a great
deal of amazing stuff for this show it's
quick chat right now saying tidy cat
tidy cat no we didn't hear back yeah no
they did not reach out which is just it
shows you you know tidy cat they
probably got a great product but Owen by
HP they've got a great product and
they're supporting a great product in
supporting CLG and overwatch League and
not the show they're also show
supporting a mediocre product in
supporting hot line League
so either way thank them thank you so
much if you are if you're watching this
right now do me a favor go follow them
on Twitter drop it into twitch chat if
you're watching the vaad go check out
the description go tell them hi say
thanks for shown they got all sorts of
cool programs going all the time you can
find out all the information on Twitter
it's a great place to follow them and
share your support for their support of
this show so thank you so much to open
by HP for sponsoring hotline League very
good let's move on to the next caller as
I shout out some subs PB Hahn 710 SK
milk Justin J 299 big Mars 3 2 3 Rico
suave eight six one nine three a blind
mute m9 Shyamalan Shia melon ex
Kekoa sighs miss 104 baka Tensei and
Evora gets us up to low PI Ron c9 and
tuning of Fredo 510 and Soundwave Canada
did you get a drink medias yeah I got
some water nice that's very refreshing
you have to stay hydrated otherwise the
hydration bot shows up in your chat and
yells at you true calling on the show
right now calling where you calling from
Salt Lake City Utah have you been on the
show before I noticed my first target I
think there's Colin yeah we've had a lot
of Salt Lake City
as well I feel like there must be a
pretty big league player base there yeah
I think so I mean I don't live exactly
it's like City but I'm pretty close okay
well regardless that area what do you
want to talk about on the show tonight
first TSM topic I want to talk about
because you know they had such a tough
year I was I should they make changes
for next year and if they should what
would those should just be or like if
it's like roster or like management
stuff like that well here we go that's a
was definitely a tough one open-ended no
no I mean like this I mean this was
obviously the conversation every was
gonna be having I actually on my stream
earlier I thought that Soren for some
reason in my mind I had it that Soren
would be his contract was ending this
year but it actually ends next year so
theoretically unless like some sort of
trade happens or there's a biotin
contract you got bjergsen still there I
don't know what one maybe we can start
this by reflecting a little bit on the
roster decisions that they made this
year feels like they had a hard time
figuring out a good jungle situation or
am I wrong
medius and marked it what did you guys
think about Mike Young and then Greg
throughout this year well you gonna be
yes
oh it's hard for me to say I do think
that in my experience from playing
against both of them that Greg is a
stronger player right now and it was the
right call for TSM to put in Greg
instead of Mike Young especially because
of their strengths as players like I
think Mike Young does better on carry
style junglers like you know Lisa in
Italy and Greg is gonna do a lot better
on the supportive tanky initiator
junglers which for like how TSM is
looking to play Greg's playstyle is
gonna be a lot more beneficial okay do
you think Greg did a good job the split
I think Greg did do a good job the split
I think that the position he had to come
into was extremely difficult like
insanely difficult you're coming into a
team of like very like the most
established team and maybe like all of
League of Legends right with the most
brutal fanbase at times you know like it
can be very hard and then your
so coming in as the rookie to like you
know span and mithy were like the best
bottling in Europe that came in here you
have bjergsen consider one of the best
billion years of all time and so he's in
a very difficult position but I do think
he actually played pretty well given it
should knife found himself in yeah well
I'm gonna say this I don't think that
they should keep the same roster because
I feel like they had a year they
couldn't make it work and I don't know
why they couldn't wake it make it work
do you guys have any idea because that's
the big question I think that everybody
should be asking is like what went wrong
because they had all the right
ingredients a lot of people want to
blame we lost her webcam mark a lot of
people want to blame that we are you
here okay yeah I'm here well Skype is
just awful tonight it's awful all the
time it is but for some reason tonight
in particular oh dear God
alright I think the question should be
what went wrong and and why and how do
you and then once you figure out what
went wrong you figure out how to solve
it because it's not that it's venomoth
you weren't good right like we does
venomoth you were good or am I crazy
here I think I think they were good but
um it seemed like they didn't really
live up to the expectation that people
had of them like they weren't just
dominating lanes crushing lanes getting
massive 2v2 advantages they were
actually kind of put on just like this
kind of go even play style I never
really thought they were trying to win
they were there for like I think I know
when I practice against them maybe it
changed a bit in summer but it was just
like okay they're bought Lane is the
Brahma Ezreal players you looked at
their win rate and it was like 80% win
it on Brahma Ezreal Europe somewhere
here on anything else so I I think that
my take on TSM is just that um because
of all the pressure surrounding the team
it was kind of a hard environment and I
noticed that like when Weldon came in to
give him that playoff buff like people
meme about it but it's actually a super
real thing I think that Weldon was able
to bring the team together and give him
that like cohesion that they were
missing because when you're on a team
like TSM especially when you're like a
player that's trying to make a name for
yourself you don't want to be the
guy that's responsible for like losing
your team games right but in turn that
can also kind of make you the guy who's
not winning your team games either I
think that TSM just sort of like had
this passive play style where none of
their players were bad but they weren't
really extending themselves in taking
enough risks to really like sort of like
exert their pressure onto the other team
they just were sort of like this yeah
we're gonna scale well team we're
probably not gonna do anything super
stupid but we're gonna be like kind of
indecisive and play slow so I think that
um they definitely could make this the
same roster work but I also wouldn't be
surprised to see them try to shake
things up here's a question for you guys
if because there's an alternate world
here where cloud 9 beat Team Liquid
sorry mark huh Oh sound like I heard you
talking yeah I was trying to talk okay
sorry we're at one real quick question
here though there's a world here where
cloud 9 beats Team Liquid does TSM then
go to worlds that we can assume that
they did they would have right because
they beat a hundred thieves in the third
fourth place they probably would have
beat them again would we be having this
conversation if that happened I think
that as far as North American teams go I
think that TSM is stronger than hundred
thieves right now and if Clara and won
that final smash I would have expected
TSM to win through the gauntlet mark I
think their match versus hundred seas
was SuperDuper close maybe they'd come
back and do much better I mean they
crush echo fox who seen in the mental
boom but I think the whole point of this
roster was to go to Worlds and kind of
do well at Worlds where their previous
rosters had failed you know like that
was the whole reason they did this and
so even if they went to Worlds if they
lost in groups again which it feels like
they probably would looking at their
current level of play I bet people would
still be disappointed at the end of it
it might not be been as harsh or as
drastic as it is but I think there's a
couple things to go back a little bit
that you can kind of highlight that went
wrong for TSM this year and obviously if
the team ever says I didn't contradict
you to this the team
as a lot more insight than we do but one
the general situation didn't pan out at
all even though I think I agree medias
like critic stepped up and did a pretty
admirable job given the position he was
in
that's not at all what people were
expecting the juggle positions beginning
of the year to their coaching staff
completely fell apart you saw like four
different people coming on stage at
certain points in time or three starting
with song than lustboy than part and
like all this other stuff was going on
so I clue their coaching staff never
gelled together I don't think their play
style ended up making much sense when
you like broke it down exactly like span
and mithy usually not super aggressive
players they kind of have that EU
botlane mentality that like reckless
also has where it's a lot about like
becoming very effective in the middle
late game and they lost the pressure
point in doublelift and they never work
together and then as well as probably
having too many cooks like it sounds
like they butted heads really heavily
over how to play the game so like all
those things are pretty concerning and I
would expect at least two players to
change out right and I think what you
said about losing SS as a pressure point
is something that it is really important
in my eyes because you know in the
league community like there's a lot of
ways to look at the game right like
League of Legends is a game that by no
means is solved it's always it's always
like people are finding out new
strategies and new ways to do things but
the thing that I focus on when I look at
a player strengths it's not really like
their stats or their kDa or like CS
differentials or anything like that it's
just like who is creating the pressure
for your team who is taking your game
out of neutral and like making the other
team respect you like you look at a
player like who knee right he receives a
lot of shit but every single person in
the planet knows that when you play
against echo fox you have to think about
what they're gonna do top lane because
like he's he's that kind of player he
has so much pressure when you play
against TL it's the same way with double
if you're like okay well like if we
leave they're bottling 2v2 they're
probably gonna be getting advantages
right so like those pressure points and
they're aggressive players I think
they're just kind of missing right now
do you call in what do you think about
any of this
why would from a TSM fan standpoint I
saw a promise at the end of the year
because I mean improving from going from
sixth place living quarters to going to
third I mean that's not bad
improvement and I get like you guys said
like if seen on one that finals pretty
sure they go to Worlds so I mean I would
be pretty upset if they just like change
stuff about the roster I do agree with
the coaching thing where they had like
song and then they had the lustboy and
then they had two coaches and then they
would switch the two coaches it didn't
feel like they really gelled that much
and so yeah I just I would be kind of
upset if they got rid of players I would
I see where you're coming from but I
wouldn't be surprised to see some of
them change out like I think Greg like
we said performed admirably but I don't
think that's to people since the whole
goal is to be performing well at Worlds
I don't think Greg is that guy for them
right now so when he might change out
and then like I thought Haas had a
pretty underwhelming year all around
there was never a point where he was
really even in discussion of top three
when that's kind of what he was for a
little while for TSM so I think you
maybe need to take a hard look at him
and then if you want to keep the bot
lane that's gonna take up both your
import slot so I think even they can
potentially be looked at like I don't
know that's that's how I would think
about it but I don't know if medius
entraps think differently yeah yeah I
think that um if I was tsm's coach the
biggest thing that I think they should
probably try is just kind of like with
always talking about earlier with cloud
9 is like trying out different things
because as far as I know aside from
general like they've never even
attempted to use a sub or to like get
new perspectives on things and like wall
bjergsen is like the staple point of TSM
and he's a great player but I think that
at least trying different like bring in
a mid laner just just like not
necessarily play on stage but just tries
screams to like get new perspectives on
things because when you get so used to
doing things one way you might not even
like know that there are other ways you
can try things so I think that TSM could
definitely benefit from just like trying
out different team setups I'm most
looking to SKT like if you think about
them the way they brought in P Rhian and
someone who's like a sub on Phoenix one
in North America is not a better mid
laner than faker but you just had a
fresh take on the game and sometimes
that can kind of like remote evade the
team get people to see things in
different ways maybe even give faker
additional perspective so I think that
that's something that TSM could benefit
from a lot i link now you said that the
perfect person for me would probably be
who he because he feels like he is
probably one of the people who
approaches the mid lane the most
different from bjergsen and easily would
be a crazy world I'm not saying like
starter or you're benching bjergsen for
him but like yeah if you talk about
bringing perspective I think who he
plays the game so different from just a
lot of mids in general but also bjergsen
I am good I think who he would be a
really good choice for them I mean
obviously we don't know what seal to use
doing or if who he's even like looking
for that kind of thing right but yeah
like I love a twitch at counts me like
bench burek bench Bjork's the problem
and stuff and I mean that's just like
kind of what TSM fans are gonna do like
they just kind of enjoy the noise of
things yeah I do think there's something
there as far as it's not that bjergsen's
the reason that TSM hasn't done well or
that they're going to have more success
with someone else but I think just like
for the sake of change and like
freshening things up it could definitely
be beneficial it's really interesting by
the way because when I went to go
interview the guys over at c9 yesterday
I talked today's all but after the
interview and he was just saying that
like TSM was just crushing it in scrims
and Jack was saying TSM is so good
it's a pity they're not going to Worlds
and so just it's really interesting
because this is again when those times
were like yeah obviously the strength of
team is actually how they show up on
stage but it's crazy to hear that like
through throughout this whole ye
people just kept saying like
behind-the-scenes TS I'm so good taste
them so good it's just crazy that they
could never bring it out on stage well
and that's why I think like you might
not see a ton of changes because if you
remove like some of those pain points
that we talked about like if their
coaching staff was just something that
was more cohesive the whole year and if
the jungler that they picked at the
start of the year actually worked out
you know maybe maybe it's a totally
different story so let me I don't think
you necessarily need sweeping changes
but let me ask you guys this question if
so I believe they're under to your
contract I think we'd have to check I'm
not sure but if Mithian Sven were both
to go to Andy and say hey we want to go
home I and and he's like look I know
you're under to your contract but we'll
trade you we'll figure something out
everyone's through 2019 but mono so what
is is TSM have a chance at looking like
I I wonder a little bit if they have
ceded their legacy and the roster
changes last year right because how easy
is it going to be for them to for a long
time it was any any player in the world
would or any player in North America at
least in a lot of other regions would
drop everything they can to get to TSM
but the market is much more competitive
now right like people can look at a lot
of different teams and think like oh
maybe I can go playful for them the
compensation has gone up
EU is gonna go into franchising like is
there a world where like TSM struggles
to climb out of the hole that they might
have dug themselves for this year I
don't think so I think it's obviously
not great but just looking at like the
viewership on all the different
docu-series I mean TSM Legends is still
doing pretty good so I think I still
have a lot of clout in the community I
think there's no other team that would
miss Worlds and then the next day I have
like eight threads about their players
on it so I think there's still that like
interest for a lot of people who are
coming up in the scene like if you want
you to
I'm out there like tsm's that seemed to
do it I do think that the aura is gone
of like you joined TSM you're instantly
the best in North America though one
thing I've noticed too that like you've
talked about how like the players coming
in to TSM don't aren't like they don't
blow up as fast and something that I
noticed back in the day when a player
would join one of the top teams like TSM
or something their social media numbers
would skyrocket
boom who brought by Oh Frost brought
this up
yeah like Greg's been playing the whole
split with TSM aney I was like 5 K
Twitter followers so it definitely seems
like they don't have that level of I
guess prestige anymore where anyone
who's on their team is considered just
like an amazing player or something like
that yeah that was something I got I was
hanging out with Finn's on the other day
he brought that up as well so it's
interesting that like two pro players in
the same week to me are noticing that
stuff medias I wouldn't ask you this
question I am NOT asking you if you're
joining TSM I'm not asking anything like
that there was a suit that we did of the
show when you left hunter T where I
clipped out a segment that was like
should medius join TS 7 it went bonkers
on YouTube and in that segment mark was
saying like I don't know if TSM is like
the type of place that medias would like
because you tend to like teams that feel
much more like hey we're a bunch of
friends like let's kick some ass and TSM
has historically been rumored to be like
a highly competitive environment so I'm
kind of curious like from a player style
from a personal style like what do you
what do you as a player think of that
like what would that experience be like
for you and what are your kind of
thoughts on on if you would even gel
well with the TSM right and I think it's
definitely a good question and I think
that like I probably have a different
answer than some people would but I
guess in an example I can use was going
from 100 thieves to flank West Academy
hundred thieves was a team where like it
was a good organization the owners were
nice the players were all respectful and
like there was nothing really bad about
the team but I just didn't feel that
good when I was there like I felt
stressed more than I had fun
it just like I feel like no one on the
team was like in a super amazing mindset
as opposed to when I came to fly Quest
Academy like when I came here I was just
like why am I here
like this is so weird that I'm in this
situation I guess I'll just do my best
and I actually found like myself so much
happier on this team just because I got
along with my teammates so much better
like the guys on this team are so funny
like they kind of just reinvigorated me
and like made me remember why I first
started playing this game just to have
fun so I don't think that I would do
well in an environment like tsm's where
it's you know so 10 so competitive so
like under the spotlight and then I feel
I'm sure those players feel so much
pressure and like maybe they're like
mental health takes a hit from it that's
just something that I'm not super
interested in I care a lot more about my
mental health as a player and just like
having a good time while also trying to
be a good team yep we're gonna hate I
want to thank you so much calling for
calling in by the way Brian Kibler and
the chat said the fashion on the show
has gone up thanks so much I'm wearing
on a tail shirt so it's nice of you to
notice Brian that's really cool of you
they make great products good friends of
their so that's really nice of you Brian
big fan Kevlar Sandman let's see where
are we a c9 Antonio Fredo 5:10 sound
with Canada action dat cheeser killing
you guy Korean to na ruin those seals
coz sorry ass Keef Ryan who I guess you
are you do you know who that is meaning
us cuz you reacted in chat skiff I was a
good friend yeah he's he's like probably
my oldest sub would get loose here yeah
he was in there earlier he was really
excited about my tail shirt I think he
said something about the apparel
Danny Danny grim the hero of the show
and helping meteos get his webcam fixed
mark did you pick him because of that
no I like to stop it okay well Danny
Graham no favoritism where are you
calling from
are you from Redmond Washington Redmond
Washington okay I'm gonna turn you up
here look like what do you want to talk
about on do you work for Microsoft yeah
have you been on the show before I never
asked you this question I know but I've
talked to you in twitch chat when you
were doing IRL streams okay very good
well what do you want to talk about on
the show tonight right so I wanted to
talk about how I don't think any team
from any region should qualify to world
based on championship points and I guess
my main reason his world should be like
this big tournament once a year all the
best teams at that moment should be
represented at Worlds and since slots
are kind of it's not like every region
gets ten slots or anything it's very few
slots and we should only be seeing the
best teams and I feel like when you
start counting championship points you
like no hate towards heart thieves but
you get situations where like the fourth
best team in the region qualifies so I
guess what I'm trying to say is only one
team should qualify from playoffs
everyone else should fight for whatever
slots are left we should only qualify
from pull it from playoffs like one team
one team from playoffs obviously summer
playoffs and yeah everyone else's fight
either flu gauntlet or some other system
I don't know okay yeah so without
getting into the specifics of the system
the main talking point is no one should
qualify it off point championship points
okay yeah so do you in this system two
spring split not matter and I mean I was
I was thinking about it for a while cuz
you want spring split to meet something
but I guess it should only help you with
seating in gauntlet which should be a
big deal assuming only one team qualify
through playoffs so you want to get a
better seat so you don't have to fight I
guess as hard so it should be something
or maybe like come up with a different
system but in the current system I still
think that only one team should qualify
through playoffs everyone else shouldn't
like championship points is just for
seeding Dana groom do you have a
favorite team
but so people are suspicious you rarity
of something on the topic of spring not
mattering I think going to MSI is good
and I think seating in the gauntlet is
still good like imagine if c9 had to
show their Hecker and pick against echo
fox and TSM was above them in the
gauntlet and then they're like oh shit
they're playing hecarim into aatrox
better learn this fucking matchups I
don't have to do it on stage I think
that is an advantage so I think you know
spring would still matter would it be as
sexy as like I got second and spring and
now I'm at Worlds no but you know do we
is it better to have a team qualifying
from points and spring is the question
yeah I definitely think it's an issue
with no easy answer because on one hand
nobody wants to see a team go to world
so it's not actually like the best from
their region and circuit points can't
allow that to happen at times like I
think a lot of people were unhappy about
100 away 100 thieves qualified given the
recent performance and I think it
happened one or two years ago with CLG
as well where they got in and not
everyone was happy about it yeah that's
a mess oh yeah yeah I mean I definitely
agree that it's unfortunate when it
happens when like you can't see your
favourite team that's playing well right
now go to Worlds because of something
like circuit points so I think a
different system could be good the only
thing you have to think about is how do
you make spring split not useless and
that's the big question for everyone
circuit points were designed as a way to
kind of make spring split matter more
because you won't just have a team
that's like you know giving 0 like care
in the world to the spring split and
then just tryharding in summer and then
getting in so I wish dad was here we
hear when he was given that like this on
the analyst desk or what no no this
wasn't like the cast your green room
okay we were talking about the same
topic and Jats like I have a system I
was thinking about and then someone was
joking like there's a whiteboard there
if you want to write it down and then he
just goes up on the whiteboard near Isis
huge thing so it's John after we left on
Sunday he went and wrote it on a napkin
and took a picture on his phone and sent
it to me
would you have it I shouldn't I
shouldn't show without talking with him
but yeah he's sent it I mean one of the
things that we were discussing is
basically making the gauntlet function
more like a double elimination bracket
in conjunction with the actual playoff
bracket so that like as you lose in
playoffs you get dropped into the
gauntlet at different points and people
who have their points who then like in
spring if you didn't get seeded into the
playoffs you would then have it so it
was it was something like that we were
there were a lot of different ideas
around it and I think spring split
matters a lot more than when
championship points were initially
introduced cuz there was no there was no
MSI if I remember until 25th 2015 they
got rid of how stars initially were yeah
it was yeah they deserve a brain at all
centrally yeah 2015 was all stars and it
sucked and I think 2016 was the first
MSI then yeah so I forget exactly when
it came around but I think with MSI
becoming a lot more prestigious of a
tournament in the last two years
the need for like championship points to
carry a lot of weight to make spring
matter has decreased like I think TL was
very happy to like be rewarded with the
chance to play at MSI for winning spring
so I still think spring would would
matter plenty you should text jet and
tell him to come yeah actually I
remember parts of Jats thing like
obviously I don't remember the whole
thing but it was something like yours it
was a double elimination gauntlet
tournament thing but what a problem
you're into with a lot of double
elimination tournament sirs like the
grand final is really weird because like
how much my advantage to give to the guy
coming from the winner's bracket versus
the losers so and with what Joe was
saying it was a case where it would just
be like at the end of the tournament
like the top three teams go to Worlds it
doesn't really matter if you're number
one or not right yeah that's exactly
what he and I were talking about as well
where it's like you I was saying that
you want to run the gauntlet actually
concurrent with the thing so that way
your finals weekend is actually your
final weekend it's not the gauntlet
later because it's really weird to have
like yes at least for me it's really
weird to have this hype ask venue that
is very important for the first second
place match but then you come back
play a week at Lake he's kind of dull
venue and even though TSM vs. c9 to
qualify for world should have been super
duper hype it still feels hard to
measure the hype in the venue so I was
saying you want to combine the gauntlet
and the playoffs together so that way
your final weekend is at a venue and
it's the one to match which is
determining seeding for worlds and the
third fourth place match which is
technically the end of the gauntlet run
which people have been dropping into as
they've dropped out of playoffs
I am super onboard with that because I
have for a long time I felt like
gauntlet is a very very cool event but
weirdly placed like you should cap off
the entire summer split with the finals
like everything builds to that and then
afterwards you've got this other thing
that at times can feel more hype than
the finals if you've got shit like it
just it's really weird so I am 100% down
for integrating got there you should
text Jett and tell him to come on the
show Danny Graham what were you gonna
say
sorry I wasn't actually talking but I
think the big reason why I want to push
for sorry Danny is because in the
current playoff system I think there's a
lot of situations where like a really
good team like two really good teams
will meet early in the playoffs like if
you look at spring playoffs I think like
Team Liquid and cloud 9 met in the
quarterfinals right and cloud 9 just has
this way of losing quarterfinals during
playoffs sometimes and they might not
even be like the fifth six worst team
maybe they're the second-best team but
if you hit the first best team round one
like you're kind of screwed so I'm
personally a big fan of double
elimination I think it's like pretty fun
to watch so hopefully they can find some
system where you can integrate that and
give like the most combination of like
fair exciting and competitive for all
the teams Danny I'd love to hear you
talk yeah I want heading on to what
media was saying I like from other
eSports where they don't have like an
established league you get to see once a
year you get to see like this huge
qualifiers happening which is kind of
like gauntlet and I really like that
that even like the strong
Steam's have to like work through
qualifier and you get like epic games
and it's super fun so I definitely think
that expanding gauntlet to some extent
would be super nice and then again to
kind of reiterate what I was saying I
mean it's nice that you had a good
spring split but that was like a whole
what four months ago and if you're not
the best like if you're not the first
second or third best team in the region
you shouldn't be representing that
region at Worlds and it's just like
plain and simple and at least in my
opinion it did again no hate towards
anyone that qualified over points that's
not the point the point is that you need
to be the best for worlds to be kind of
the best tournament and especially since
there's no real way to say like even if
you're a fourth place and qualifying you
can't really say how much weaker you are
than the third place team so there might
be like a huge disparity but since you
did good in spring split you still
qualify and that's like a a very kind of
bad scenario for the tournament so yeah
I guess just either come up with a
different system expand gauntlet
something else just don't have somebody
qualified that is not the first second
or third best team in the region yeah
yeah sounds good hey Dani thank you so
much for calling in anything you want to
add at the end here no thanks for having
me thanks for fixing the issue earlier
any time Oh any time great because I've
got a lot of Skype issues so I'm gonna
hit you up alright you can't you can DM
me fantastic cool all right
he said he works in Microsoft right yeah
I realize I don't like I don't he's not
an official Microsoft representative I
don't want to get him in trouble who
knows what he works on he might do QA
for office 365 all right Alex Shepherd
99 thank you for the resub media's
hotline is best hotline Oh Davi subd a
unit unit GG killing you guy reset for
three months I'm in the market for
gaming keyboard I think my next one
maybe one from OMA by HSP Thank You tiny
memoirs t9 eclipse robot bear shark
our Farley dude 97 subbed our X dealer
89 adorkable jerk SHINee froakie reset
for seven months
a dopey donkey i'll net13 eight and
Bonzo TV Boone's Oh TV sorry and Coco
Coco cup six six I think is how all
right whatever and we're all caught up
on twitch subs that'd be a pity if I
lost my movement friction is here is
here how's it going friction is here
you're quiet can you move a little
closer yo Mike I can yeah
that's perfect where are you come from I
am calling from Hamilton Ontario Canada
thanks I need in there our first kid
wait you've been there medias yeah I
think you make masters there yeah yeah
that's universal years ago nice that's
cool did you see me do sir no I know I'm
in the College ok the city gotcha
well hey what do you want to talk about
in the show so my hot take is that after
a year of franchising it doesn't feel
like LCS is any more competitive like
there's no reason almost for me to watch
like golden Guardians play or sorry
meteos but like fly Quest play like it
if they're playing like someone like TL
or c9 it just feels like they're just
gonna stomp and there's no reason to
tune in golden Guardians was number one
at one point in time in the split and
fly quest up until the very end was
pretty high well they actually made
playoffs yeah yeah but that didn't go so
well for them they got pretty they get
stomped by a hundred thieves that's true
sorry continue your thought and yeah it
just feels like there's no like going
Guardians yeah they they had their high
Murph it'll drag on for a while but then
when I come like the clutch time it just
seems like they can't turn it on it's
the veteran like teams and orgs that are
winning out again and again and again
um okay go ahead I was gonna say I think
you can definitely point some fingers at
some decisions that 100 thieves made all
right that golden Guardians made that
we're not so great but I don't think
it's quite fair to hold those against
the franchising system or even to say
that this had no impact because I mean
golden Guardians were not very good but
they were still not like 1 in 17 or
something like we've seen out of the
coasts and stuff before and yeah that
was this not the eighties media so mark
tell me tell me if I'm wrong here but I
feel like this was the most competitive
split we've ever had in North America
yes and no I think Envy with Lehrer
in spring or maybe it was the summer
anyway summer 2017 or maybe was spring
2017 was really competitive as well but
we did have in spring if you remember
like 511 and seven teams all battling
for playoffs or whatever it was and then
again there was a super close playoffs
race where optic almost made it in a
team that came in through franchising
and they improved significantly between
spring and summer same with fly crust a
lot of these teams that would struggle
otherwise a hundred thieves obviously
came in and did very well but they
basically recruited a whole veteran
roster so I feel like it's okay I have a
hard time saying that the league didn't
get somewhat better though I do think
going gardens with disappointing
so it's the main concern that there's no
more relegation like do you feel that
these teams shouldn't be able to keep
their spot given their performance or
like what is the concern it's just I
have no leg there there's no reason for
me to really be invested I feel like in
golden Guardians or like below our teams
because it's like at their current level
of play they're not going to they're not
going to Worlds they're not going
they're not going to playoffs like it's
hard to be a fan of that team when they
they don't seem to be very competitive
do you feel like you need to that I
would agree that gold
guardians hasn't done that great of a
job so far but like Marc was touching on
I think it viewing that as a failure of
the franchising system as a whole it's
kind of hard for me to agree with
because I there have been teams like 100
thieves that came that came in and like
have done so well and some of those
older teams that were ohi's front
runners like Seale G now have fallen
kind of to the bottom of the pack so in
my mind franchising has I mean I'm not
necessarily gonna defend or criticise
franchising because I think there are
some good and bad parts of it but I
don't know if it's like entirely related
to the state of the league or like how
much you're gonna care about certain
matches because I think that LCS has
always kind of had like top teams and
bottom teams that's just kind of the
nature of it if there's 10 teams that's
all playing is to each other every match
is one winner one loser and they're
gonna be teams that are better than
other ones yeah I think I I think you're
operating off of the assumption that
franchising should make you care about
all the teams I don't think it should if
you look at most franchise leagues in
the world like there's a lot of teams
that are at the bottom and the only
reason people care about them is because
they are right there yeah from that area
and even then those teams struggled with
viewership and turnout at their live
events and all that stuff so like if the
if this if this the stance is like hey
franchising feels like a failure because
I don't care about some of these shitty
teams I guess I would say I don't know
franchising was ever supposed to make
you care about some of the shitty teams
I think it was supposed to make things
more competitive and like also give the
ability to the existing teams to invest
more into their teams because they know
they're not gonna get relegated right
like I don't know if hundreds he comes
in drops as much money as they did to
make a star roster spends as much on
content creation and you know feels is
good about it because they could
disappear next split yeah I think that
the big thing at least for me from like
a player and organization standpoint
that franchising is helped with is
giving more of that job security so that
bigger investors are more comfortable
coming in because take a team like what
was one of those like one split
teams that came in before franchising
right like if I'm in here yeah like if
you if you're a team organized like a
team owner and you want to own an LCS
team you have to invest so much money
like you have to get a team house in LA
which is very expensive you're playing
you're paying most players six-figure
salaries you're providing like food for
them lots of other staff so the expenses
are very high and if there's just like a
chance that your team is gone neck split
based on performance which you know is
pretty much outside of the owners
control a lot of the time it's gonna
discourage you from one and you get
invested in just losing all your money
so I do think that franchising is helped
in that aspect yeah I mean like a lot
people said there's always winners and
losers but I do think this season and I
don't think once again it's not fair too
much like it's not fair to attribute
some of the the worst parts of the
season to franchise I don't think it's
fair that you read the best parts either
but like hey TSM didn't make worlds
that's fucking crazy would that have
happened in a non franchise system I
don't know maybe maybe not same with
like you know CLG tanking like medias
was saying like I think this this has
seen a ton of crazy stuff happened over
the course of this split and I don't
think it's all due to franchising of
course but I think there were a lot of
really interesting storylines this year
and I don't think franchising hurt that
in any way yeah hey friction any other
thoughts um yeah I think I think failure
was maybe maybe an over-exaggeration on
my part ya know it's still a good point
you brought up the question I think it's
it is a good point and I think we will
be doing this more on on later episodes
of hotline link throughout the year
probably after worlds as well reflecting
on what was good and what was bad about
franchising what was the the value that
we gained and where where as it failed
us and if you would like to see more
competition and teams that seem a little
bit more impressive than what you saw
the golden Guardians I think that's a
fair point so yeah I just I guess like
the the too lazy didn't read of it is
just like I felt like they riot and the
LCS like hyped it up I was like it's
gonna inject all this
like money and like interest in the
league and like some of the teams just
didn't seem to like put out the content
like I don't think I ever saw anything
like squad from golden Guardians or
optic optic to do one by the way they
had their own show I also don't know if
every team needs to be doing a squad
with it hopefully this do you get a
little oversaturated when like every
single team is wants to be like the TSM
game cribs of season two yeah do you
want to watch you only have so many
hours in the day you can't watch all
that stuff yeah do you want to watch a
golden Guardian squad I don't yeah yeah
no but like to his point they can doing
something better yeah that's all I'm
trying to say no yeah I definitely agree
that a lot of these orgs especially the
newer ones like we've mentioned hundred
thieves did a pretty good job I would
say that of the other new ones that came
in like optic clutch and golden
Guardians they didn't do as well as I
could have but I would give him the
benefit of the doubt that we didn't hear
I didn't hear tons of negative things
about those orgs from within like a lot
of the players seems like it made it
seem like that orgs are at least trying
and I think that a lot of it can just be
summed up by inexperience because look
at TSM and cloud 9 they've been doing
this since the inception of the league
even before that so they've got a lot
more experience they know how to do it a
lot better so I think just naturally
these new teams coming in just having
been in the space that long and they're
gonna need some time just like sort
everything out to be honest I don't want
to watch a CLG squad either I say that
knowing Nikolas and the twitch chat I
just saw a pop I want to watch a Travis
cafard squad well there's a there's a
couple or anything's up if you should go
check out my vlogs videos okay there's
one where I wake up shirtless next to a
body pillow
it's it's a lot racier there's a lot
more content going on there than there
aren't any of these team Doc's you see
some real you see some real shit hey
fixation fixation thank you so much for
really call no problem have a good night
guys
sorry
coming in any second should be seeing
somebody by the way thank you - yummy -
God Donna can fucking Johns every laners
dream mr. Kramer and in a for the subs
just now we are where we've surpassed my
highest ever sub point thing nrj welcome
to the show I'm just gonna call you
energy because I don't wanna read those
numbers off is that okay hey Nick can I
call you 6490 yeah of course Nick what
so my friends call me where where are
you calling from I'm from Boston from
Boston nice
that's where Marcus from I think oh yeah
oh did you did you care I care a lot
okay good I could I get here and you're
Russian have you ever thought they're
worried that the sarcasm that you
display on the show might cause an issue
for your relationship with the people on
it Nick what do you want to talk about
in the show so when I was watching the
c9 TSM gauntlet finals something after
emotion on the desk kind of stuck with
me I think he said the best play style
is your own style I think he was
referencing c9 playing like that like
hyper dive comp all series and what I
was thinking about was at any
international tournaments usually have
like a mix of teams that just like
really try to hone in on the Korean meta
or whatever regions I guess maybe Korea
China this year but whatever region is
like doing them out of the best and
really try to like find the best picks
and play their style and I think it
seems like TSM I've really been doing
that a lot and not very successfully but
then there were also teams like that
really like go for their own style and I
think c9 this year would be a good
example of that maybe even CLG when they
were at Worlds playing like Rome heavy
styles and so my question is has a name
not really gone the distance
internationally
uh because like their own players aren't
really like up to snuff like they don't
have the execution or then have the
synergy of the communication to pull off
the types of strats that the Koreans can
pull off or should they just be not even
trying to emulate the Koreans in the
first place and just like going for
their own like c9 CLG playstyles okay so
I think what I think that's a good topic
and I think there's like different parts
of that that you'd have to address
separately because something that I've
noticed is there are a lot of teams that
will just like copy what the Koreans are
doing and I don't necessarily always
think the reason they do it is because
like it's just the best way to play but
I think of it more from like the thing
about it if you were a league coach
right how many people in the league seem
do you think no like every single part
about the game like can tell you what
every player should do at every moment
like it's it's actually zero the game is
not figured out enough for that so the
shortcut that most teams take is instead
of being like okay so we're gonna let's
play our own style we're all just gonna
like pick our favorite champions and
find some magical way for them to work
together and like that that can work and
it's cool and that does work but what's
kind of easier is if you're trying to
get everyone the same page or like hey
this is the best team in the world let's
see what they do and try to do that just
like as a starting point I guess so I
can understand why teams do it and I
think that teams that can understand the
fundamentals and like know the basics of
teamwork and macro and map control can
sort of branch out and do more of their
own style like what cloud is done but I
think that if you're a new team you just
come into the league and you're just
like yo I'm only playing either and fuck
it bros like this is what I you this is
my style you're gonna run into a team
that's like okay well I've earned
garbage and he can't do anything a
jungler needs to do so we're gonna win
this one and then you have the guy who's
like oh well I've ER in just my style
I'm gonna keep playing iver until I die
and then you end up with an O & 18 team
I think the other thing that you've
often talked a lot about meteos is that
a lot of players don't really like to
admit their own strengths and weaknesses
necessarily like I can't play that or
I'm I am a tank player you know like
there's such a negative stigma to being
like yep I'm the fucking tank player bro
and like me
impact is someone who feels like he is
kind of accepted that that's mostly who
he is he does branch out and play other
stuff he'll play a GP or play other
stuff but like I know maybe you want to
give this spiel medias but just like
that's another thing I think is like
everyone thinks that they can play
everything so whenever they see
something pop up elsewhere in the world
they're like oh I can do that yeah and
it's it's definitely something that I
think we did talk about that doing the
desk like off air or something but I
don't know if it's always it's not
always gonna be like a pride thing like
players just like never wanting to admit
their weaknesses I think it's more the
case that like people don't actually
know their weaknesses like a lot of
people will kind of be like hey I'm a
pro player like aren't pro players
supposed to be good at everything and so
you ask someone if it's like hey like
can you play this champion don't be like
yeah you know like I have played this
champion before I have gone through the
laning phase with him and I didn't
single-handedly lose my team the game so
yeah I can play it rather than having to
be like oh I don't think I can play this
one guys and the rest of team being like
well you're shit then so it's I think
it's kind of a weird issue yeah I really
did appreciate when you brought it up on
the analyst desk it's such a funny
dynamic I think sort of yeah oh yeah
someone's a double of flatten I think
that's a great example because like when
ad carry's had to play other things do
you'd like look at what ad carry's have
done for the entirety of their existence
they've only honed the skillset of like
or blocking and like auto attacking
right and I'm not saying that it's
easier that they're not good or anything
but when you have to go from that to
playing mages I think a lot of people
just don't realize how hard that is
really like the actual different skills
that go into that I think it's more just
like a lack of understanding more so
than inability to admit like weakness or
whatnot
right and I definitely think as well
it's just it's it is hard to innovate
like it is actually hard to find
something that works really well and
then that your team can play around
correctly and all that stuff like well
especially if they're hatching schedule
by the way like yeah especially with
patches coming out all the time the
hecarim thing was so you heard like a
late last-second adaptation that c9 made
and it
it did work pretty well with their team
but it wasn't like this it didn't seem
like it was this grand master strategy
that they completely figured out and to
your point about looking forward to
world's energy I do hope that we see a
lot more of na finding things that they
think works for them but I just hope the
community's reaction to that is not what
the fuck is any doing because what what
I always see on reddit and what I always
see come out of the community especially
you fucking people watching right now if
you look at whatever happens and blame
the draft if it's too similar to the
Koreans we're just copying them if it's
too different why don't we play the meta
just let the teams do what they think is
working yeah I think that in general
people from the outside just aren't
really gonna understand what's going on
because I mean that you can't you don't
have enough information or work with so
I definitely think that if you take what
the community says too seriously you're
not really gonna get anywhere because
it's like no matter what you do there's
an angle to say it's wrong right yeah so
AC 0s oh sorry good I mean I think that
teams do try to like play their own
style and play toward their strengths
but at the same time it's hard to
balance it it's like at what point do
you say okay this meta champion is just
too strong you can't beat it you just
have to play it that's the only like
response to it is just take it away from
the other team then at that point is it
like is that not you playing your style
if you've just determined that's the
best thing to do to try to win so I
think it's a pretty complicated issue
that didn't have a super simple solution
AC 0s on in the chest as Travis could be
reference 2016 CLG at MSI on this topic
they were an na team that developed
their own style element pretty far maybe
this is what any teams have to do I mean
I'm actually gonna curiousity here's a
question for you if you guys are you
know Cote likely you're running the
hundred thieves stuff as they're headed
into worlds like is that a team that
should look to actually try to innovate
a ton and like maybe like catch people
off-guard because maybe they aren't they
they aren't at a point right now where
they can just go ahead to head with like
standard pics they should try the kind
of crazy shit
well back paying a little bit to the CLG
at MSI think it wasn't just
they had their own play style they
pretty much had a better play style
they were playing range supports when no
one else would so not only were they
playing a very aggressive Rome style
they were playing with a lot more
priority than the Korean teams at the
time were in a lot of the rest of the
world who were playing melee supports
they also had their alien soul thing
though that was pretty unique still
doing the meta where there was lots of
Lane swaps wasn't it no 2016 they were
dead though they were gone then alright
nevermind yeah yeah so like I agree like
yeah they had the a really insulting but
when you saw the Korean teams copy from
them over the course of the tournament
was not the areion soul necessarily
though that was still being played
elsewhere like fly was playing that in
Korea at that time like other people
were playing really in Seoul but they
were playing almost exclusively range
supports so like that was a much bigger
thing actually I think and that was not
just like having our own style that was
having a style that the rest of the team
got exposed the rest of the world got
exposed he was like oh shit that's a
better style yeah so just on that point
and 400 thieves I don't know the fucking
deal you're gonna have to scrim a lot
and hopefully you go up against some
good teams you see if your Styles
working alright for you or not and then
maybe you you really do have to change
things up yeah what one thing that I
would say about it is like 400 thieves I
think that you just have to play to your
own player strengths and sometimes your
own player strengths will be the meta
right like I think anta is gonna do
better on like Tejwani poppy and stuff
and he would it may be playing like
graves or some hyper carry not and it's
not only just the single players
aptitude on that champion like maybe and
is a fantastic graves player but if 100
thieves like the rest of their players
say you play on a team that has like all
high income players right like a player
who will do very well if he's the most
if he's the richest guy in the game but
he doesn't really know how to operate if
he's not a richest guy in the game
there's a lot of players like that so
maybe if you're a graves player it's not
really a good fit to try to play graves
with the team like that or or there's
lots of other examples like I was kind
of how I feel when I see impact always
talk to how he can't play carries
because I know impact can play carries
I've seen him play carries he pops off
in soul key all the time
but maybe TLS as a team is just much
more comfortable playing around bottling
so I think that team should just play to
their own strengths as well as they can
sometimes it'll line up with the meta
sometimes it won't also mark I got a
call um I've been doing some research
and I feel like they were just out of it
there were lane swaps in 2016 why you
write twitch chat to you that's crazy
yeah cuz I mean I know one thing with
CLG style too is like when CLG was
successful back then it was almost all
lane swaps like they would almost never
do standard lanes there's one point
where their win rate and standard lanes
first lane swamps was very very
different you know so it's it's
definitely in there I think there's a
lot of times a lot of things that factor
into what's going on but it's easier for
people to understand it as like oh this
one thing is everything hey I want to
ask our good friend Nick if he has
anything else you'd want to enter to
this point you had about hundred views
it was very interesting because when I
think about last year's worlds to the
teams where expectations weren't very
high
we're cloud nine at misfits especially
for misfits they were John's like the
dream group for TSM and they made it out
and then they took two games against SKT
by playing stuff like Leona bot and I
think they'd picked Hassan with some
like weird ADC picks I'm out remembering
wrong but I think they picked Raven or
something but I think that might be a
way that I think was firstly gonna with
double firfer that was like yeah yeah it
was Leo innovative there because I was
during Darden sense or meta yeah and
they like took two games and they
weren't supposed to get three out but I
think that might be a way that teams
like 100 thieves or maybe even a g2 was
the 32 from Europe I think can over
perform yeah something that something
that the way that I've always looked at
the game as I think that generally
you're gonna do better if you're playing
on comfort meaning like if say there's
the other team picks a champion where if
you go on like Pro builds calm like I
feel like you see people do this or not
Pro builds but like one of those okay
Gigi or la lytx where it's loud
you can find the counter matchup right
maybe your your most comfortable
strongest champion right now isn't the
textbook hardest counter pick to him but
if you can play that champion so much
better than you could play the better
counter I think you should just play
what you're more comfortable with I
think it makes a lot more sense yeah
hey thanks so much for calling in Nick
yeah thanks for having me I really
appreciate have a good one
sorry everyone that we had a bit of a
shorter show today we started a little
late but we had some good questions
thank you so much minutes for coming on
the show mark do you have anything here
at the end no thank you guys for coming
out apologies again that's my bad
sorry guys no no it's fine don't worry
it was still a very fun show we still
hit our highest viewership without a
host we didn't get hosted right we
didn't get hosted I think we had a
higher viewership when Peter was on but
I don't that show hardly counts I don't
he did host us one time and we got
higher viewership when he hosted us but
he when he was on with Kelby that show
just went bonkers I think I think he got
like five K or something but it doesn't
matter cuz medias brought a flame the
fire less spirit mark anything you want
Brian Kuebler
your web cam dropped out again work
that's good okay do you have anything
that you want to say hear any plugs
anything at the end mark no working on
that thing what are you doing for the
next three weeks probably hanging out a
lot a lot of azeroth a lot of the wounds
medias anything that you want to shout
out when you're gonna stream people have
been asking that in twitch chat oh yeah
that's a good question it's something
I've been asking myself too it's
deafening something I want to get back
to but I'm just making sure I have a
good setup for it cuz well you have a
webcam now that by the way huh you have
a webcam now it's more than Internet I
think I'll lag really hard if I try
streaming from here so okay I do want to
go back to streaming sorry for other
people who've been wanting this dream
that have been able to get it but it's
something that definitely
putting effort towards so probably like
then next couple weeks we'll start it up
again yeah well anything else you want
to throw out there for people anything
you're going on uh not I mean just
thanks for tuning into the show and
again sorry to travis mark and all the
audience for the the webcam problems i
should have been more prepared well i
want to thank all the people who said
I'm gonna stick around on stream for a
second after the show is done but I also
just want to say that I've opened up a
new way for people to support me if you
are horde or reliance on tech Andria's I
will take your gold so you know it's
it's you know there's patreon options
there's we really want to open up a lot
of different opportunities for everybody
so anyway thank you so much to mark and
me just for coming on the show I feel
like there's something I should be
promoting and I can't think of what it
is there's gonna be quite well week's
world are you all doing the drupe group
draw show no I don't think so media so
you do anything for worlds uh I would
like to you if I'm invited but I haven't
heard anything yet usually when I show
up on the desk I get a text like the
morning or the night before and they're
like hey you do anything tomorrow so
good I'll definitely I'm interested in
it if there is a an opportunity but
maybe they already have stuff planned
you're gonna get a DM from Riot Games at
like 11:00 p.m. and be like hey do you
want to come on the desk for the whole
night yeah yeah oh that's what I was
gonna say I do have a community a hoard
come hard community that people can join
called Travis cafard industries it's
pretty cool if you guys want to join
that we actually do run a bunch of
mythix and stuff and leave all the
people I've met through that are really
cool people so it's kind of neat to just
like play with League folks and get
carried anyway that's episode 45 mark do
you know we're coming up on one year I
think the first episode we ever did was
like September 27th or something
somebody linked it to me I knew we were
getting close because I knew we started
this after we did like ten episodes
before worlds happened and everything
got like thrown to shit cuz you were in
China and every
yeah yeah so I knew we were coming up on
it am trickster and chesses are my and
Dash's guild and I'm in the other guild
but I did play with dash today and some
of his friends including Mark so anyway
that's episode 45 thinks everyone for
watching hotline link is over now